# Using Clowder

### About Clowder

Clowder is an active data repository designed to enable collaboration around a set of shared datasets. See the _[Clowder website](https://clowder.ncsa.illinois.edu/)_ for more information about the software and its applications

TERRAREF uses Clowder to organize, annotate, and process data generated by phenotyping platforms.

### Requesting Access

You can req\_[uest an accoun](http://terraref.ncsa.illinois.edu/clowder/)\_t for the TERRAREF Clowder Interface by clicking Sign up in the upper-right corner. Once access is granted, you can explore collections and datasets.

### **Data organization**

Clowder consists of three organizational levels:

* Datasets consist of one or more files with associated metadata.

* Collections consist of one or more datasets.

* Spaces consist of collections and datasets. Spaces allow for particular roles to be assigned to particular users.


Datasets offer a Metadata tab that displays associated information; for example, the contents of .json files originally packaged with the data.

### **Searching the database**

Clowder allows users to search metadata and filter datasets and files with particular attributes. In development is the ability to query BETYdb based on a particular set of resulting images.

### Analyzing data in Clowder

After selecting a dataset, the **Tool Sessions** menu on the lower right sidebar allows users to launch analysis tools. Currently, users can choose between launching Rstudio or Jupyter.

These tools support R and Python as well as many familiar programming languages.

See the [Clowder Documentation](https://terraref.gitbooks.io/terraref-documentation/content/clowder.html) for more details.

### Clowder Extractors

Through it's extractor architecture, Clowder supports automated workflows for the extraction of information from datasets as well as transformations.

